docs/guides/README.md, before:

# Guides overview
Welcome to the `matestack-ui-core` guides! In here, we cover various use cases of this library, along with examples and explanations.

**Note:** 
* These guides/docs are written for `>= 1.0.0.rc.1`. If you're looking for the docs for older releases, please have a look at the github repo itself within `/docs` and select the desired version tag.
* Most of the guides are currently in progress. Please be patient while we do our best to create content while releasing a stable 1.0.0 release which will happen this September

## Installation
Learn how to properly set up `matestack-ui-core` with your existing Rails application - we cover both the AssetPipeline and Webpacker [in this guide](/docs/guides/1-installation/README.md).

## Essential Guide
In this series, we start by creating a new Rails app and then expand it by installing `matestack-ui-core`, deploying it to Heroku and adding basic CRUD functionality, diving deeper on a couple of (mostly `matestack`-related) topics.

This guide is split into 10 parts, each building onto the changes of the previous one. It is meant to be used as a work-along orientation where you can change various parts according to your likings.

You can start with [the first article](/docs/guides/2-essential/00_introduction.md).

## Contribute
If you're looking into contributing to this project, please take a look at the [Contribution Guide](/docs/guides/13-contribute/) - there, we cover everything from guidelines to basic concepts and the local development setup.

## Miscellaneous
Even though we try to keep things simple from an API perspective for you (the developer), things can get tricky and/or there are specific requirements in your projects that call for sophisticated solutions!

The [miscellaneous guides](/docs/guides/12-miscellaneous/README.md) collect a variety of those cases and are meant both as an inspiration and first address of support.

If you don't find what you were looking for, feel free to [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/matestack/matestack-ui-core/issues/new) and/or [ask for community support](mailto:jonas@matestack.io).

If you happen to have a case that you feel belongs here, you are more than welcome to [open a PR](https://github.com/matestack/matestack-ui-core/compare)!

Commit message:

[TASK] update essential guides, essential guides overview, devise guide

docs/guides/README.md, after:

# Guides overview
Welcome to the `matestack-ui-core` guides! In here, we cover various use cases of this library, along with examples and explanations.

**Note:** 
* These guides/docs are written for `>= 1.0.0.rc.1`. If you're looking for the docs for older releases, please have a look at the github repo itself within `/docs` and select the desired version tag.
* Most of the guides are currently in progress. Please be patient while we do our best to create content while releasing a stable 1.0.0 release which will happen this September

## Installation
Learn how to properly set up `matestack-ui-core` with your existing Rails application - we cover both the AssetPipeline and Webpacker [in this guide](/docs/guides/1-installation/README.md).

## [Essential Guide](/docs/guides/2-essential/)

These series of guides introduces you to matestack step by step. We start of by creating a rails app and subsequently implement a basic CRUD app using matestack. Afterwards we dive deeper into matestacks functionalities giving you a great starting point and a good introduction. At the end we provide guides on how to work with devise and deploy your application to heroku.

This guide is split into several parts building upon each other. It is intended to be a work along guide. Feel free to adapt things to your needs. 

You can start with [the first article](/docs/guides/2-essential/00_introduction.md).

## Contribute
If you're looking into contributing to this project, please take a look at the [Contribution Guide](/docs/guides/13-contribute/) - there, we cover everything from guidelines to basic concepts and the local development setup.

## Miscellaneous
Even though we try to keep things simple from an API perspective for you (the developer), things can get tricky and/or there are specific requirements in your projects that call for sophisticated solutions!

The [miscellaneous guides](/docs/guides/12-miscellaneous/README.md) collect a variety of those cases and are meant both as an inspiration and first address of support.

If you don't find what you were looking for, feel free to [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/matestack/matestack-ui-core/issues/new) and/or [ask for community support](mailto:jonas@matestack.io).

If you happen to have a case that you feel belongs here, you are more than welcome to [open a PR](https://github.com/matestack/matestack-ui-core/compare)!
