docs/guides/2-essential/README.md, before:

# Essential Guide

0. [Introduction](/docs/guides/2-essential/00_introduction.md)
1. [Setup](/docs/guides/2-essential/01_setup.md)
2. [Active Record](/docs/guides/2-essential/02_active_record.md)
3. [Index, Show, Transition](/docs/guides/2-essential/03_index_show_transition.md)
4. [Forms, CRUD](/docs/guides/2-essential/04_forms_edit_new_create_update_delete.md)
5. [Toggle Component](/docs/guides/2-essential/05_toggle_component.md)
6. [Async Component](/docs/guides/2-essential/06_async_component.md)
7. [Partials and Custom Components](/docs/guides/2-essential/07_partials_and_custom_components.md)
8. [Collection Component](/docs/guides/2-essential/08_collection_async.md)
9. [Custom Vue.js Components](/docs/guides/2-essential/09_custom_vue_js_components.md)
10. [Styling and Notifications](/docs/guides/2-essential/10_styling_notifications.md)
11. [Authentication with Devise](/docs/guides/2-essential/11_authentication_devise.md)
12. [Wrap Up](/docs/guides/2-essential/12_wrap_up.md)
13. [Heroku Deployment](/docs/guides/2-essential/13_heroku_deployment.md)

Commit message:

[TASK] update essential guides, essential guides overview, devise guide

docs/guides/2-essential/README.md, after:

# Essential Guide

In this series of guides we teach you how to create a rails app from the ground up with matestack and encounter how matestack makes your life easier and takes away the frontend hustle. We build a demo CRUD application which you can take a look at [here](https://demo.matestack.io). The source code of the complete application can be found on [github](https://github.com/matestack/matestack-demo-application).

0. [Introduction](/docs/guides/2-essential/00_introduction.md)
1. [Setup](/docs/guides/2-essential/01_setup.md)
2. [Active Record](/docs/guides/2-essential/02_active_record.md)
3. [Index, Show, Transition](/docs/guides/2-essential/03_index_show_transition.md)
4. [Forms, CRUD](/docs/guides/2-essential/04_forms_edit_new_create_update_delete.md)
5. [Toggle Component](/docs/guides/2-essential/05_toggle_component.md)
6. [Async Component](/docs/guides/2-essential/06_async_component.md)
7. [Partials and Custom Components](/docs/guides/2-essential/07_partials_and_custom_components.md)
8. [Collection Component](/docs/guides/2-essential/08_collection_async.md)
9. [Custom Vue.js Components](/docs/guides/2-essential/09_custom_vue_js_components.md)
10. [Styling and Notifications](/docs/guides/2-essential/10_styling_notifications.md)
11. [Authentication with Devise](/docs/guides/2-essential/11_authentication_devise.md)
12. [Wrap Up](/docs/guides/2-essential/12_wrap_up.md)
13. [Heroku Deployment](/docs/guides/2-essential/13_heroku_deployment.md)
